# Q1
Entities:
- Match
	- Played match
	- Postponed match
- Team
- Person
	- Player
	- Coach
	- Referee
- Tournament Day
- Player Positions
- Contract
	- player contract
	- coach contract

The match played as scheduled must be distinguished from those postponed. For a postponed match, we store the date in which it is actually played. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">**We also identify the matches played in a city other than that of the home team; for each of these, we store the city in which it took place, as well as the reason for the variation venue. For each player, we are interested in the city of birth.**</mark> <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">What does this refer to?</mark>

## Assumptions
- Assuming all series and matches are in the same tournament
- Assuming 1 match a day for a series (between two teams)
- Assuming we can uniquely identify a match by series and match number (series identifies which two teams competing and match number for which series match)
- Assuming all teams have at least 1 coach and a coach can work with multiple teams (possibly at different times)
- Assuming no restrictions on number of players in hockey team (since ER diagram cannot strictly enforce)
- Assuming that first name, surname, and date of birth is enough to uniquely identify players and coaches
- Team needs a teamID attribute as there are no attributes that can be used for identification
- Referee needs a refID attribute as we do not store Date of Birth for referee and there are no other substitutions that will guarantee us unique identification 

Match
- series
- tournament day
- match number
- date (day, month, year)
- team 1
- team 2
- played city
- each team whether team played at home
- is postponed
- postponed date (day, month, year)
- played away from home
- reason for variation
Referee
- first name
- surname
- city of birth
- region of birth
Coach
- name
- salary
- city of birth
Player
- name
- surname
- date of birth
- main position
- city of birth
Player Positions
- for each match, player of each team who played and in which position each player played
Tournament day
- how many points each team has
Contracts
- 
## 1.2
For this subquestion, I introduced unique ID values for each entity (if they did not have one before) for easier referential constraints. Although it is possible to use the keys as in the first subquestion, it is much more convenient to use unique IDs for relationships between entities.
$$
\begin{align}
Match(&\underline{matchID}, Series, Match Number, TournamentDay, Referee, Team1, Team2, \\
&DateDay, DateMonth, DateYear, HomeCity, HomeTeam, InHomeCity, \\
&VariationCity, ReasonForVariation, IsPostponed, PostponedDay, PostponedMonth, PostponedYear)
\end{align}
$$
$Referee(\underline{refID}, Firstname, Surname, CityOfBirth, RegionOfBirth )$
$Team(\underline{teamID})$
$Coach(\underline{coachID}, Firstname, Surname, DateOfBirth, Salary)$
$CoachContract(\underline{Coach, Team}, DateOfCommencement, StartDate, EndDate)$
$Player(\underline{playerID}, Firstname, Surname, DateOfBirth, CityOfBirth, MainPosition)$
$PlayerContract(\underline{Player, Team}, DateOfCommencement, StartDate, EndDate)$
$TournamentPoints(\underline{TournamentDay, Team}, Points)$
$PlayerPosition(\underline{Match, Player}, Position)$
$$
\begin{align}
Match(Referee) &\subseteq Referee(refID) \\
Match(Team1) &\subseteq Team(teamID) \\
Match(Team2) &\subseteq Team(teamID) \\
CoachContract(Team) &\subseteq Team(teamID) \\
CoachContract(Coach) &\subseteq Coach(coachID) \\
PlayerContract(Team) &\subseteq Team(teamID) \\
PlayerContract(Player) &\subseteq Player(playerID) \\
TournamentPoints(TournamentDay) &\subseteq Match(TournamentDay) \\
TournamentPoints(Team) &\subseteq Team(teamID) \\
PlayerPosition(Match) &\subseteq Match(matchID) \\
PlayerPosition(Player) &\subseteq Player(playerID) \\
\end{align}
$$
## Q2
The entity TRAINROUTE is redundant with TRAINTIMETABLE as TrainNumber in TRAINROUTE is a subset of Number in TRAINTIMETABLE due to the referential constraint and it would not make sense if there is the same TrainNumber and Number whilst the To and From attributes between the two entities do not align. Thus there must be a one-to-one correspondence between TRAINROUTE and TRAINTIMETABLE that is fully redundant. 
# Part 2
## Q1
### 1a
$$
\begin{align}
AB \to C \\
BC \to D \\
D \to E \\
CF \to B
\end{align}
$$
$$
\begin{align}
AB \to C \\
ABD \to C \\
ABE \to C \\
ABF \to C \\
ABDE \to C \\
ABDF \to C \\
ABEF \to C \\
ABDEF \to C
\end{align}
$$
### 1b
$ABF, ACF$
### 1c

## Q2
$R(ABCDE)$
### 2a
$ACD, CDE, BCD$
### 2b
Assume in 1NF.
Note that all of $A, B, C, D, E$ are prime attributes, since they are each in at least $1$ key of $R$.
By definition, $R$ is in 2NF.
$R$ is in 3NF since all RHS attributes of the functional dependency are prime attributes.
### 2c
We have the following functional dependencies: $F = \{ A \to B, BC \to E, ED \to A \}$
$R$ is not BCNF since it is not the case that for every FD, its LHS ($A, BC, ED$) is a superkey of $R$ since the keys of $R$ are $ACD, CDE, BCD$.
## Q3
### 3a
#### ai
$B$
#### aii
Prime attributes: $B$
Non-Prime Attributes: $A, C, D$
If we assume that no attributes are composite/multi-valued, then $R$ is 1NF.
Since there is a single key, trivially no parts of it derive a non-prime attribute, thus $R$ is 2NF.
$R$ is not 3NF since non-prime attribute $D$ is derived from another non-prime attribute $C$.
Thus $R$ is 2NF.
#### aiii
Decompose $R(ABCD)$ into:
- $R_1(ACD)$, relevant FD $C \to D, C \to A$
	- Key is $C$
	- This relation is 3NF and BCNF since LHS of relevant FD is always a superkey
- $R_2(BC)$, relevant FD $B \to C$
	- Key is $B$
	- This relation is 3NF and BCNF since LHS of relevant FD is always a superkey
Final BCNF decomposition: $R_1(ACD), R_2(BC)$
### 3b
#### bi
$BD$
#### bii
Prime attributes: $B, D$
Non-Prime Attributes: $A, C$
If we assume that no attributes are composite/multi-valued, then $R$ is 1NF.
It is not 2NF since parts of the key derive a non-prime attribute ($B \to C, D \to A$).
Thus $R$ is 1NF.
#### biii
Decompose $R(ABCD)$ into
- $R_1(BC)$, relevant FD $B \to C$
	- Key is $B$
	- This is trivially 2NF as there are no parts of the single prime attribute $B$
- $R_2(ABD)$, relevant FD $D \to A$
	- Key is $BD$
	- This is not 2NF since part of the key derives a non-prime attribute
	- Decompose into
		- $R_3(AD)$, relevant FD $D \to A$
			- Key is $D$
			- This is trivially 2NF since there are no parts of the single prime attribute $D$
			- This is 3NF and BCNF since LHS of relevant FD $D$ is a superkey
		- $R_4(BD)$
			- This is trivially BCNF as there are no relevant FD for this relation
Final BCNF decomposition: $R_1(BC), R_3(AD), R_4(BD)$
### 3c
#### ci
$AB, CD$
#### cii
Prime attributes: $A, B, C, D$
Non-Prime Attributes: None
If we assume that no attributes are composite/multi-valued, then $R$ is 1NF.
$R$ is trivially 2NF as there are no non-prime attributes.
$R$ is 3NF since RHS of every functional dependency is a prime attribute.
$R$ is not BCNF since for FD $C \to A, D \to B$, LHS is not a superkey.
Thus $R$ is 3NF.
#### ciii
Decompose $R(ABCD)$ into
- $R_1(AC)$, relevant FD $C \to A$
	- Key is $C$
	- This is BCNF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
- $R_2(BCD)$, relevant FD $D \to B$
	- Key is $CD$
	- This is not BCNF since LHS of relevant FD $D$ is not a superkey
	- Decompose into
		- $R_3(DB)$
			-  This is BCNF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
		- $R_4(CD)$
			- This is trivially BCNF as there is no relevant FD
Final decomposition: $R_1(AC), R_3(DB), R_4(CD)$
## Q4
### 4a
#### ai
$A^+ = \{ A, B, C, D, E \}$
$(CD)^+ = \{ C, D, E, A, B \}$
$B^+ = \{ B, D \}$
$(BC)^+ = \{ B, C, D, E, A \}$
$E^+ = \{ E, A, B, C, D \}$
Candidate Keys: $A, CD, BC, E$
#### aii
Prime attributes: $A, B, C, D, E$
Non-Prime Attributes: None
If we assume that no attributes are composite/multi-valued, then $R$ is 1NF.
$R$ is trivially 2NF as there are no non-prime attributes.
$R$ is already 3NF as RHS of all functional dependencies are prime attributes
### 4b
#### bi
$CD$
#### bii
Prime attributes: $C, D$
Non-Prime Attributes: $A, B, E, F$
If we assume that no attributes are composite/multi-valued, then $S$ is 1NF.
$S$ is not 2NF since part of keys derive non-prime attributes: $C \to A, D \to F$
Decompose:
- $S_1(CAB)$, relevant FD $C \to A$ ($A \to B$ does not influence normalization)
	- Key is $C$
	- Trivially 2NF since no partial dependency 
	- Is 3NF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
- $S_2(CDEF)$, relevant FD $CD \to E, D \to F$
	- Key is $CD$
	- Still not 2NF
	- Decompose
		- $S_3(DF)$, relevant FD $D \to F$
			- Key is $D$
			- Trivially 2NF since no parts of singular key
			- Is 3NF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
		- $S_4(CDE)$, relevant FD $CD \to E$
			- Key is $CD$
			- 2NF since no parts of key derive non-prime attribute
			-  Is 3NF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
Final Decomposition: $S_1(CAB), S_3(DF), S_4(CDE)$
### 4c
#### ci
$AB, AE$
#### cii
Prime attributes: $A, B, E$
Non-Prime Attributes: $C, D$
If we assume that no attributes are composite/multi-valued, then $T$ is 1NF.
$T$ is not 2NF since since part of keys derive non-prime attributes: $A \to CD, B \to C$
Decompose
- $T_1(ACD)$, relevant FD $A \to CD$
	- Key is $A$
	- Trivially 2NF since no parts of singular key
	- Is 3NF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
- $T_2(ABE)$, relevant FD $B \to E, E \to B$
	- Candidate keys are $AB, AE$
	- Still not 2NF since since part of keys derive non-prime attributes: $B \to E, E \to B$
	- Decompose
		- $T_3(BE)$, relevant FD  $B \to E, E \to B$
			- Candidate keys are $B, E$
			- Trivially 2NF since no parts of singular key
			- Is 3NF since LHS of relevant FD is a superkey
		- $T_4(AB)$
			- Key is $AB$
			- Trivially 2NF and 3NF since no relevant FD
Final Decomposition: $T_1(ACD), T_3(BE), T_4(AB)$
## Q5
### 5a
### ai
As there are no functional dependencies, the key of $R$ is all attributes $ABCD$ and is also trivially BCNF.
As neither $A$ nor $B$ are superkeys of $R$, thus both multi-valued dependencies violate 4NF.
### aii
By transitivity we get MVD, $A \twoheadrightarrow CD$
$R_1(AB)$
- No MVD in this relation as there are only 2 attributes
$R_2(ACD)$
- No MVD other than $A \twoheadrightarrow CD$
Final decomposition: $R_1(AB)$, $R_2(ACD)$
### 5b
#### bi
Key of $R$ is $ABC$.

TODO: not in 2NF

**BUT WE ASSUME 3NF WUT CUZ THE PROF IS A DUMBASS**

Since $A$ and $AB$ are not superkeys of $R$, both multi-valued dependencies violate 4NF.

All MVD: $A \twoheadrightarrow B, AB \twoheadrightarrow C, A \twoheadrightarrow D, AB \twoheadrightarrow E$
#### bii
**NOTE THIS IS INCORRECT WE CAN"T ASSUME 3NF**
$R_1(AB)$
- 2 attributes, no MVD
$R_2(ACDE)$
- Still violates 4NF with MVD $A \twoheadrightarrow D$
- $R_3(AD)$
	- 2 attributes, no MVD
- $R_4(ACE)$
	- No relevant MVD

## Q6
### 6a

### 6b
$A \to B$ means that every $A$ value directly determines a $B$ value. $A \twoheadrightarrow B$ means every $A$ value can correspond to $\ge 1$ $B$ value. Thus due to conflicting definitions, this is clearly false. A trivial counterexample to showcase this is:

| A | B |
|---|---|
| a1 | b1 |
| a1 | b2 |

$A \twoheadrightarrow B$ but not $A \to B$